Release notes for Red Hat Developer Hub 1.6.0 (#1133)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/release-notes/ref-release-notes-new-features.adoc

= New features

This section highlights new features in {product} {product-version}.

[id="feature-rhidp-3597"]
== OpenTelemetry metrics support added to the Keycloak backend plugin

With this update, the Keycloak backend plugin supports OpenTelemetry metrics, which monitors fetch operations and diagnoses potential issues.

The available counters include the following:

* `backend_keycloak_fetch_task_failure_count_total`: Counts fetch task failures where no data was returned due to an error.​

*  `backend_keycloak_fetch_data_batch_failure_count_total`: Counts partial data batch failures. Even if some batches fail, the plugin continues fetching others.​

These counters include the `taskInstanceId` label, which uniquely identifies each scheduled fetch task, and allows you to trace failures back to individual task executions.

Example configuration:

```text
backend_keycloak_fetch_data_batch_failure_count_total{taskInstanceId=&#34;df040f82-2e80-44bd-83b0-06a984ca05ba&#34;} 1
```

You can export metrics using any OpenTelemetry-compatible backend, such as **Prometheus**.

[id="enhancement-rhidp-5039"]
== Enhanced session duration control and refresh token cookie policy

> With this update, the maximum age of the refresh token cookie has been reduced to 400 days to align with the modern web browser policies. Additionally, a new configurable field, `sessionDuration`, has been introduced in the supported authentication providers. This allows administrators to specify custom user session durations, enabling better control over session timeouts and enforced logouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this update, the maximum age of the refresh token cookie has been reduced to 400 days to align with the modern web browser policies. Additionally, a new configurable field, `sessionDuration`, has been introduced in the supported authentication providers. This allows administrators to specify custom user session durations, enabling better control over session timeouts and enforced logouts.

```

With this update a new configurable field, `sessionDuration`, has been introduced in the supported authentication providers. This allows administrators to specify custom user session durations, enabling better control over session timeouts and enforced logouts.  Additionally, the maximum age of the refresh token cookie has been reduced to 400 days to align with the modern web browser policies

For more information, see link:https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.5/html-single/authentication_in_red_hat_developer_hub/index#idm140459408106672[Authentication in {product}].

[id="enhancement-rhidp-5211"]
== Support for custom version information on the settings page

{product} now supports the extension or replacement of version information on the settings page. This feature allows customers and partners to replace the version information on the settings page with their own versions.

[id="enhancement-rhidp-5987"]
== Updated Auditor Service

{product} {product-version} introduces an enhancement to the RBAC and Bulk Import plugins, enabling users to utilize Backstage&#39;s new Auditor service. The key features include: ​

* Audit log format update: 

The audit log format has been updated to align with the new Auditor service conventions. Audit fields and event identifiers have been updated. Filtering queries based on the old format may no longer function as expected.​

* Backend Plugin API integration: 

The audit log is now backed by the `@backstage/backend-plugin-api` package.​

* Audit events Grouping: 

> The Bulk Import backend plugin emits audit events for various operations, with the events are grouped logically by `eventId`.​

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Bulk Import backend plugin and RBAC backend plugin emit audit events for various operations, with the events grouped logically by `eventId`.​
```

This section highlights new features in {product} {product-version}.

[id="feature-rhidp-3597"]
== OpenTelemetry metrics support added to the Keycloak backend plugin

With this update, the Keycloak backend plugin supports OpenTelemetry metrics, which monitors fetch operations and diagnoses potential issues.

The available counters include the following:

`backend_keycloak_fetch_task_failure_count_total`: Counts fetch task failures where no data was returned due to an error.​

`backend_keycloak_fetch_data_batch_failure_count_total`: Counts partial data batch failures. Even if some batches fail, the plugin continues fetching others.​

These counters include the `taskInstanceId` label, which uniquely identifies each scheduled fetch task, and allows you to trace failures back to individual task executions.

Example configuration:

```text
backend_keycloak_fetch_data_batch_failure_count_total{taskInstanceId=&#34;df040f82-2e80-44bd-83b0-06a984ca05ba&#34;} 1
```

You can export metrics using any OpenTelemetry-compatible backend, such as **Prometheus**.

[id="enhancement-rhidp-5987"]

> == Updated RBAC and Bulk Import plugins

Reviewer: I think we should rename this to "Updated Auditor Service".  We can mention the RHDH plugins that are impacted but the core components (Catalog and Scaffolder) are also affected too.  cc @schultzp2020

{product} {product-version} introduces an enhancement to the RBAC and Bulk Import plugins, enabling users to utilize Backstage&#39;s new Auditor service. The key features include: ​

* Audit log format update: 

> The audit log format has been updated to align with the new Auditor service conventions. Audit fields and event identifiers have been updated. Filtering queries based on the old format may no longer function as expected.​

Reviewer: I think we should also regard this as a breaking change

Author: > I think we should also regard this as a breaking change since this is something users will need to take action on

Added the Breaking change RN, @kim-tsao.

[id="feature-rhidp-6253"]
== {product-short} community plugins updated to Backstage 1.36

The {product-short} community plugins have been updated to Backstage version 1.36.

[id="feature-rhidp-6269"]
== Added a new RBAC conditional rule `IS_OWNER` to RBAC plugin

{product} introduces a new RBAC conditional rule, `IS_OWNER`, that allows administrators to assign ownership to roles and control access to the RBAC plugin. This enhancement enables more granular access control by allowing ownership-based filtering of roles, permission policies, and conditional policies.

This enhancement removes the resource type from the `policy.entity.create` permission, preventing conditional rules from being applied to the permission. You can update all permission policies that utilize the resource type `policy-entity` with the action `create` (for example `role:default/some_role, policy-entity, create, allow` to `role:default/some_role, policy.entity.create, create, allow`) to prevent degradation in the future.

[id="enhancement-rhidp-6882"]
== Default OIDC sign-in resolver updated

> With this update, the default resolver for OIDC sign-in is set to `oidcSubClaimMatchingKeycloakUserId` to enhance security. This resolver is now also available as a configurable option under the sign-in resolver settings.

Reviewer: I believe the resolver is `oidcSubClaimMatchingIdPUserId` and I think this might be a breaking change but I'll let @JessicaJHee confirm

Reviewer 3: The user-facing sign-in resolver to configure is `oidcSubClaimMatchingKeycloakUserId`, so it's correct in this case. The `oidcSubClaimMatchingIdPUserId` resolver is used internally to support multiple OIDC providers and is not intended for direct configuration.  

I think enhancement is good for this as it doesn't impact current behaviour/configs.
